for a few of you out there for just a
few of you in the audience this video is
providing a vice that is gonna influence
decisions you make in the immediate
future and that's gonna shape your life
for years and decades to come
and then there are the rest of you we're
watching this for just the mildly
amusing quality of knowing some more
details about my personal life and
experience living and working in Asia so
on and so forth
I love you people don't get me wrong but
I have to be mindful about both
audiences I'm here talking about the
really important reasons why you should
not not choose to learn Chinese in
Taiwan the Republic of China this is
something I've thought about for many
many years something I've experienced
going back to the year 2002 or 2003
dealing with I've lived in Taiwan at
many different times in my life and I
have experiences as both institutional
learning and shall we say
extracurricular or independent learning
I have experience linking me to
innumerable universities within Taiwan
including and especially small Buddhist
universities the English teaching
universities the elite universities the
humble universities it's not worth
talking about my background I'm someone
who's been in and out of Taiwan since
maybe 2003 this is now 2019 I don't even
want to add up how many years I've been
on the island maybe it adds up to two
years during that time I don't know but
it is a few months here a few months
there and I'm someone who's been a
student of Chinese in several different
institutions when I was a child when my
first language my only language was
English and yet it was still in the
process of learning English I would ask
my father questions such as the word
infantry it looks a lot like the word
infant are they related did they used to
have the same meaning is there some
reason why the word infantry in the
military is spelled the same way as
infant and even though my father spoke
English as his first language and even
though my father considered himself a
highly educated
erudite man he was made very
uncomfortable by this kind of question I
asked questions about the English
language from age three that made my
parents feel uncomfortable ill-educated
stupid and unsure what to say on the
island of Taiwan the multicultural
situation that people are living in his
so awkward is so difficult to negotiate
that people are confronting exactly this
kind of consternation all the time when
you ask the simplest questions
imaginable even about Howard is
pronounced Howard is written what a word
means the most self-confident people in
Taiwan about language are the ones who
will come out and say straight to your
face that they don't speak Chinese at
all they speak this other language
Hokkien or they speak this other
language Hakka it's a minority of people
who embrace that identity the vast
majority of people in Taiwan instead
live in a perpetual gray area of
self-doubt and self-contradiction where
they speak read write and understand an
uncertain mixture of Beijing sander
Chinese Beijing standard as adapted
preserved and promulgated by the
government of Taiwan not as propounded
by the communist government China and as
Roy which by the way has a bunch of cute
and memorable little features that
separate it from standard Chinese as
spoken in Beijing the word for garbage
can is completely different in Taiwan
they have two different verbs one of
which means to look at a book and one of
which means to read a book
whereas in communist China they just
have one verb for both of those
functions there are a bunch of cute
little oddities like that we need not go
into in this video what I'm trying to
get instead is the really deep level of
discomfort that people have including
university educated people including
members of the social elite in answering
and dealing with the most basic
questions of what Chinese is and what is
the correct way to communicate in the
language this will extend to
interactions you have with people on
Facebook where you write some
thing in 100% correct textbook Chinese
and they find it incomprehensible and
they can't explain to you why where they
say to you no no no we don't say that in
Chinese that way or we don't write that
in Chinese that way and you might say
back to them but that's exactly how my
teacher at the university taught me to
say it that's exactly how my textbook
says to write you might even be able to
hold up the textbook all right
the entire population of Taiwan from the
most elite university educated person to
the high school dropout it was a job in
construction they live in a constant
state of uncertainty consternation and
self contradiction with this it's very
difficult for them to communicate to
their own children
what ideal they ought to aspire to in
Chinese what is the meaning of correct
pronunciation in Chinese and they
muddled by unified by this incredibly
complex and perplexing written language
that gives it the veneer of being one
language when really it's at least three
or four just within the tiny island of
Taiwan each language is at the other's
throats I could tell innumerable
anecdotes but one on one emphasize here
is the vast majority of people here in
Taiwan will not come out and say to you
that they're speaking Hokkien Hokkien is
also known as mean on you it's also
known as Tai Yu just meaning the
language of Taiwan but there were other
languages of Taiwan and it's not the
indigenous language of Taiwan that's a
whole other story talking about the
indigenous peoples it's just a different
Chinese language I was once going up the
staircase that leads to my apartment and
that particular apartment here and sorry
I was gonna say here in Taiwan in Taiwan
oh it's a long exhausting staircase to
get up and the woman living a few doors
down from me open the door and just
starts kind of yelling at me in her
version of Chinese and I mean it seemed
to be something important so I got up my
dictionary and I was saying okay it was
slowly repeating back to what she was
saying to me it's okay there's one word
here I don't recognize it all right
and she was saying this word for land
Lord was completely different the mean
and word for landlords the Hokkien were
I don't think she was speaking hacker
I'm just guessing from context here and
writing you know using my finger in my
cellular phone dictionary I was able to
figure out what word she meant and what
the meaning was and it was something
like the landlord is having a problem
with the pump you have to tell the
person you're renting your program
something along those lines that I
communicated to to my own landlord I
guess whatever you want to say we were
subletting um that woman from her
perspective when she was speaking she
was saying the same word that I looked
up in the dictionary that had a
completely different phonetic value
these people watched the news with
Hokkien being spoken and subtitles in
standard Chinese the extent to which
these languages multiple mutually
incompatible languages are overlapping
intertwined and mutual division it's
something that's very very difficult for
for any European to understand if you
grew up with an Italian grandfather or
an Italian uncle who couldn't really
speak English properly he was
nevertheless aware of when he was
speaking Italian when he was speaking
English and when he was kind of mixing
the two languages together because maybe
you know he knew a few words in the
sentence for the net that lapse into
Italian because he wasn't sure what the
english-language word for some of that
was okay the entire island of Taiwan is
inhabited by people who have no idea
when they are speaking Chinese properly
and when they are not and I said much
earlier in this video
the only people who feel self-confident
are the people who just openly say they
don't speak Chinese and who demand to
speak to you in Thai you in min and you
in hockey and orang haka
and in all of my experience all my years
in Taiwan that has happened to me once
once a woman said to me expect Leo what
don't you speak cocky
don't you speak Thai you and I said back
to her
no I studied Chinese and a university
therefore I speak Beijing Wow
I speak the dialect of Beijing which is
the textbook standard dialect more or
less we could now insert a lengthy
diatribe about how the textbook standard
language is not really the same as the
patient I lacked okay so these are these
are really deep cultural reasons that go
back at least 300 years in Taiwan and
the conquest of Taiwan by the Japanese
only made it worse
there were several generations in Taiwan
that grew up with Japanese as their
language of higher learning and
scholarship who went to university of
read biographies from these people
reading writing thinking and dreaming in
Japanese that was the level of Japanese
you know immersion if you wanted to be
an elite person to one and yet you make
the goal that's only people who I don't
know what's the University to study the
humanities know for example anyone
employed in the railway administration
they all had to be fluent yet anyone
doing this kind of engineering job
science job so those were all Japanese
language careers that had university
education some some kind of college
technical college education testing
Taiwan really was part of the Japanese
Empire and it's been politically
convenient to kind of forget about that
to sweep that under the rug I think I'm
living in one of the only places people
are open about it it's kind of another
story where people actually openly
celebrate their Japanese nests in my
particular small town and techno right
now there I think they're probably if
you go to go to taroko gorge you can see
some people who still fly the Japanese
Imperial flag and you can ask them what
that means to the politically okay so
even like during the 19th and 20th
centuries when Taiwan might have had
some of the same unifying influences
that say even Shanghai went through
Shanghai very different strange history
obviously Taiwan was not even
incorporated into the standard Chinese
linguistic sphere to that same extent
that
I was in and I would also say do not go
to Shanghai to learn Chinese
you know they that's really an
incredible uphill struggle to deal with
the difference we share I dialect and
standard Chinese but again those people
will be less screwed up about it than
the population of Taiwan okay there are
a couple of other cultural issues here
that cut deep I want to mention
so I've experienced as a student of
Chinese I've experienced as a teacher of
many languages including English
recently I was teaching my own
girlfriend Chinese I was her first sorry
my girlfriend is white American you know
she wasn't born a racist with any Asian
language and I have experience dealing
with these issues from various
perspectives okay
Taiwan had a reputation as the world's
greatest place to learn Chinese in the
1970s when they had no competition
when mainland China was a communist
nightmare of brutal repression mass
murder by state force people being
thrown into gulag and mass starvation
okay that was the period of time in
which Taiwan of this reputation is a
fantastic place to learn Chinese and
some of that reputation still circulates
today some of your university professor
you're watching this they may tell you
ho no Taiwan's this inspiring place the
people who taught Chinese to Westerners
to Americans
starting with the American military
that's how it started during that period
they were themselves refugees escaping
from communist China they weren't really
Taiwanese people and the Taiwanese
themselves of a whole political
discourse and all these terms of that
they were newcomers etc etc okay so
that's also part of the fabric of
Taiwanese politics and society okay
and that period of time is over those
teachers are now either deceased or
incredibly elderly and they were
replaced with a new generation with very
different attitudes and very different
problems in life and one of the other
dramatic changes is the amount that they
were paid yes I looked up formal
peer-reviewed research I think
one of them was a government report also
was a Taiwanese government inquiry into
why the quality of language education
was going down and what the issues were
in this this area of language education
and that before point out look back in
the 1950s 60s and 70s this was a really
high paid job it was really prestigious
to be a Taiwanese person teaching white
foreigners and today it's not today it's
a job that pays so little that
especially in Taipei people can barely
survive or can survive at all if you're
at a rural university University in the
countryside or something because the
rent is lower the same rate of pay gives
them a better quality of life but it's
tough to get by so the prestige is gone
the pay is lower the golden generation
of artists and intellectuals who fled
from communism to Taiwan and brought all
this energy and sets of mission and
purpose and who many of them during
World War two were teaching Chinese to
American soldiers
you know maybe in some cases two British
soldiers or what have you you know and
then put all that energy and again that
would have been an inspiring time they
were poor it was post-war squalor but
they were building new universities
where before there were only rice fields
you can imagine it was probably a very
inspiring time to be working your way up
from the rice fields and the squalor and
destruction of World War two and
everyone was afraid of the atom bomb
harush MA and Nagasaki even that's a far
away that was a unique moment in the
world's history and you might have
thought if you were alive that in that
in the 1970s it was just getting rolling
and gonna get better and better from
there and you're wrong in the 1970s that
was probably at its Apogee then after
that and only got worse and worse who
are the people who become Chinese
language teachers today or even English
language teachers until one sorry about
time when these people who do it okay
they are predominantly women who wanted
to get married have a family and raise
children and who have been stuck taking
care of other people's children and are
deeply frustrated deeply intact with
their lives
because they never got married and had
kids that's what I've encountered again
and again and again and that's include
women I've known who were just
schoolteachers English teachers it's
included women I've known who became
Buddhist monks and who became professors
importance universities many of the
female professors it is a stereotype it
is but it's a stereotype I have to warn
you about there's an incredible
bitterness
look man teaching a language it takes
love all right it's like doing speech
speech pathology speech therapy where
you talk to someone who has a lisp they
can't get the word right you help them
again and again until they get it and
then maybe they go away on vacation for
two weeks and they come back and they're
making the same mistake again you have
to really be willing to help someone
pronounce the difference between so and
sure and for whatever example you want
to use and of course the problem in
Taiwan is none of the Taiwanese people
could pronounce those three distinctly
it's a great example I don't think we've
asked but none of them can pronounce the
difference between the Chinese number
ten and the Chinese number four all
right this is a really simple phonetic
distinction at the time we don't have in
their own way in their own language
because it's not their own language
right this is the problem nobody wants
to admit to you right it takes a lot of
love to sit down with a student say oh
no you're not quite pronouncing a run
right you're not pronouncing so right
and you know that's just simple one
syllable when I say oh no I see what
you're trying to do in structuring the
sentence but let me help you this is how
to do it right - semuc it takes a
certain amount of love and the teachers
you deal with and so on whether or not
it's because specifically in their case
they're women who wish they had kids and
never managed you they wanted to start a
family and instead got trapped in this
low pay not prestigious dead-end jump
whatever Street it's not always that
it's a difference during a different
case I've got to tell you something
today in 2019 2020 in Taiwan they do
have the love they do not have what it
takes
emotionally intellectually or in terms
of language or cultural background to be
good language teachers in the Chinese
language and that is why long story
short you should not enroll in studying
Chinese at that one is there an easy
alternative no going to Beijing to live
under a communist dictatorship in an
unbelievably polluted crowded hellhole
it's not that appealing going to
Singapore going to Hong Kong might be
even worse I think the challenge were
facing in 2019 is precisely to build up
institutions that can really teach
Chinese in London New York Los Angeles
Toronto Vancouver Berlin Paris I think
the whole Western world needs Chinese
teaching Institute's
in all of its major cities because right
now there is no good deal anywhere in
Asia anywhere in China Taiwan Japan
anywhere in the eastern world